

It is easy to explain why you are interested in your Question; it is much harder to explain to a skeptical reader why they should be interested in your Question. The traditional way to approach doing this is to convince your audience that there is a gap in our collective knowledge, or perhaps in your individual knowledge, that is worth spending two years trying to fill in. You might also argue that there is a gap between what is known and what is practiced, or that the Question you are exploring is an enduring feature of human existence. The point is to build a credible argument that will convince somebody else that it is worth doing.

To convince your audience of this, you must do two things:

First, establishcommon groundwith your audience by stating a pertinent observation/fact that your audience will accept. In the case of your QP, a good statement of common ground might take the form of a sentence or two about the topic at the centre of your Question that sums up the pertinent aspects of what your audience likely knows about the subject. This might be one of the first things you do, right up front when you introduce the Question itself; you can then return to that theme after you’ve built up your credibility by showing what is already known \(and not known\) about this Question.

Second, briefly describe the rationale in terms of what we do and do not yet know about your topic, and why we should. A rationale may be defined at each of two levels: the benefits of this line of inquiry to your own academic growth, and the benefits to society at large. The benefits to you may simply be phrased as a lack of knowledge \(i.e that you don’t know and why you want to learn\). However, an excellent Question also has possible benefits to society. In other words, in addition to helping you learn, what other benefits can you think of for asking this unique question? It is worth thinking carefully about this second level of justification to lend your Question more validity with members of your audience that do not know you personally and may not have anything invested in your academic growth. Also, don’t confuse your personal motivations for choosing this Question \(e.g. you have a Question about dolphins because you liked dolphins as a child\) with the academic benefits to you of exploring it \(e.g. you wish to gain a deeper knowledge of the behaviour of marine mammals as a stepping stone to further work, either professional or academic, in marine conservation.\)

